Now we need to do the final sketch of our characters.
Now the first one you want to do is we want to select all our layers with our drawings on it and merge
them into one layer.
The way you do that is by clicking the top layer holding down shift and coming down to the last layer
you want to select which will be our layer right above the background layer.
So do that and now you can see it selects all those layers.
Next we're going to do is we're going to right click on one of those layers and you'll see these menus
come up.
We're going to select merge layers and now those layers have become one layer.
So if I turn that layer off you'll see all of the drawing disappears.
Turn it back on.
The reason why we did this is just to keep things clean and organized.
Next what we're going to do is we're going to bring down the opacity on this drawing.
So we'll come over to the opacity and drag it down to about 40 percent what we want to do with this
final sketch is really get in all the detail and define everything.
So as you can see here this arm is pretty undefined in this final sketch.
We want to define that completely.
So let's go ahead and get started.
I'm first going to move my drawing over by using the grabbing move tool and I'm going to re Centrum.
So that way we can see the whole image next.
I'm going to add a new layer that I'm going to select my brush tool and we're going to continue drawing
on this.
And we're basically going to trace it.
We just want to trace it with better definition.
Now this doesn't have to be perfect because this isn't going to be the final piece of artwork.
This is just going to be our guide when creating our final character.
So what I'm trying to do now is really define this
want to get away from the sketch you look and start writing solid lines that will act as guidelines
for us when we're creating and filling them with colors can be a little tricky when you're trying to
fill in shapes are not hard to find.
So right here you'll see way more definition to them actually how a shape
don't worry about making mistakes you can always undo
this on was pretty undefined it was based.
You got the idea that it was an arm right here.
I'm really going to draw that.
You can see where it is our
right here what I'm doing is I'm creating one from one point to another.
And the way I'm doing that is by cooking with a brush holding down shift and then clicking on any other
area and that will create a straight line from one point to be over.
Once I've done that I would just go ahead and sell the areas that are in front of his face.
Also any lines that shouldn't really be there.
I'll leave those out.
So this year before it was basically a circle but now it's more of a C shape.
So it looks a lot more like a leaf at the bottom of his eyes.
I don't have some lines just to define where his gloves begin.
All right.
Now let's move on to our second character.
I'm just going to do the same thing.
Going to select all my layers I want to merge by clicking the top layer pulling down shift and coming
down to the bottom layer.
And then right clicking going to merge layers will bring down the opacity.
I had a new layer and then we can begin to sketch on top of this.
So the sky wasn't very defined in the first song on a one word definition defined his eyes a lot more.
I'm going to define this side of his mouse.
You can tell I wouldn't also see very simple eyebrows and I'm finding those feathers on his head also
with the style of this character.
I want to keep them extremely simple which is why I keep enormous shapes such as feet and whom's
remember if you don't have a drawing tablet you can go ahead and do this with a pencil or pen and then
just scan didn't put it in for
fantastic.
So now we have our final refined sketches.
And like I said they don't have to be perfect they just have to get the idea across and have to be enough
of a base that you can actually create your character from it.
I hope this lecture was helpful for you and I can't wait to see you in the next one.